In this lecture we will learn about some of the general selectors that CSSA gives us access to selectors
allow us to select which elements to apply styles to so far and this course we looked at the selectors
for an element ID and class recall that to apply a style to all elements of a certain type.
We use the element name to apply a style to an element with a certain ID.
We use the hash tag symbol followed by the ID if we want to apply a style to elements that belong to
a certain class we can use a period followed by the name of the class.
In this lecture we are going to expand our knowledge of selectors and explore some of the other selectors
that CSSA gives us access to for these examples.
First let's create three paragraph elements that we can apply styles to using the asterisk selector
we can apply a style to all elements on our Web page.
For example if we wanted to change the color of each element on our Web page to blue we could use the
following code.
First we had the opening and closing style tags.
Then we use the asterisk selector and type the style that we want to apply to all the elements on our
Web page.
Let's go to the web browser and run our code as you can see the style was applied to all three paragraph
elements.
Let's jump back to the editor and look at another example.
If we want to apply the same style to elements of different types we can separate the element types
by commas.
Let's change one of our paragraphs elements to a development.
Now we can change our style for our selector we will add a P followed by a comma and then div.
This tells CSSA to apply our style to all paragraph elements and all of our development.
Let's go to the web browser and run our code.
As you can see the blue color was applied to both the div and the paragraph elements on our webpage.
Let's go back to the editor and look at another example.
If we put two element names next to each other without a comma it means to select any of the second
element that are inside of the first element.
For this example let's remove the comma between the P and div elements selectors and then put the div
selector before the p selector then we will modify our HVM to have our paragraph element inside of our
development.
When we run our code in the browser you will see that the style only applies to the paragraph element
inside of the development.
So example text 2 is rendered in blue on our Web page.
Let's jump back to the editor.
We can also select elements to apply styles to based on the attributes that they have to do so we can
use square brackets and add the attribute name inside of them.
Let's take Argive out of the paragraph tag and change our code so that we have three paragraph tags
the way we did at the start of the video.
Next we will lead the title attribute to the first paragraph tag that has the content example text 1.
Next we will change the selector to be title Inside of square brackets when we run our code in the browser.
You can see that this Starla is only applied to our first paragraph tag the one that has the title attribute
in it.
Let's go back to the editor.
We can also select elements based on their attribute value.
For this example we will add the title attribute to all three of our paragraph tags.
Then we will change our style so that it only applies to an element that has a title value of x 2.
When we run our code in the browser you can see that the color of the second element changed to blue
and the next lecture we will learn about the pseudo classes that CSSA gives us that work with user input.